Hi everyone.
In this video we will learn Python casting.
A casting is used to specify a type onto a variable, and it can be done using constructor functions
like int, float and str.
Here for example, we convert float to int and str to int via the constructor, and we can also convert
a string and int to float with the constructor float.
Let's try some examples.
I use the debugger mode.
Here y is a float with the constructor and it will be only two.
We will delete the decimal part string.
Also it will be int.
I print the result in the console for the constructor float.
And it will be float.
We will add 0.0.
The string.
Also it will be 3.0.
And this is the result in the console for the constructor.
So here we will add a sample code for the int and the float.
To be honest here.
It is possible to convert a string hello to int.
Let's try that.
I execute only this.
Python will throw an error invalid literal for int with base ten.
Hello.
That's mean.
We cannot convert hello to n y because hello doesn't represent an integer when converting a string to
int or float.
Be sure that this is.
This string represents an integer like for example ten 100 or any string that represents an integer.
It is possible to convert the string 5.0 to int.
Let's try that.
I execute only this line of code.
Python will throw an error invalid literal for int with base ten for the string 5.0.
The solution in this case is to convert the string representation of a floating point number to an integer,
and after that convert the integer.
Convert the float to an integer.
The solution.
For this example, we need to convert the string to float via the constructor float, and after that
convert the float to int.
Let's execute this code.
The result.
It will be five.
Just remember that when you convert a string to float or int, the string should be representation of
a float or integer.
And when we convert a string containing a float number to int.
We need to, in the first part, convert to float, and after that convert to int.
And that's it for this video.